+++
title = "Software I Like"
date = "2020-02-28"
+++

Software I like:

## [Parabola GNU/Linux-Libre](https://parabola.nu/)

This is the GNU/Linux distribution I run. It is FSF-endorsed and
pretty minimal when first installed it so I can build my ideal system
from the ground up.

## [dwm](https://dwm.suckless.org/)

This is the window manager I use. I use a custom build of it, which is
available
on [my GitLab](https://gitlab.com/swegbun/).

## [st](https://st.suckless.org/)

This is the terminal emulator. I use a custom build of it, available
on
[my GitLab](https://gitlab.com/swegbun/).

## [Bash](https://gnu.org/software/bash/)

This is the shell I use primarily. I also use
[dash](http://gondor.apana.org.au/~herbert/dash/) as a slim,
POSIX-compliant `/bin/sh`.

## [Vim](https://vim.org/)

This is the text editor I use.

## [Neomutt](https://neomutt.org/)

This is my email client. It serves as the backbone of my email stack,
but there
are some other programs I use for email.

## [urlscan](https://github.com/firecat53/urlscan)

I use this with Neomutt to find and view URLs in email.

## [notmuch](https://notmuchmail.org/)

I use this with Neomutt for tagging and searching for mail.

## [isync](http://isync.sourceforge.net/)

This syncs IMAP mail for me.

## [msmtp](https://marlam.de/msmtp/)

This actually sends mail for me.

## [abook](http://abook.sourceforge.net/)

This is my contact manager. It stores all the email addresses and
phone numbers
of people I frequently communicate with.

## [surf](https://surf.suckless.org/)

This is my primary web browser. I use it with tabbed for tabs and a
bookmark
script I wrote. My custom build is available on
[my GitLab](https://gitlab.com/swegbun/).

## [tabbed](https://tools.suckless.org/tabbed/)

I use this with surf to add support for tabbing. My custom build is
available on
[my GitLab](https://gitlab.com/swegbun/).

## [Newsboat](https://newsboat.org/)

This is the RSS feed reader I use. It's great for reading my blog,
among other
things. I use it to follow the news mostly.

## [castero](https://github.com/xgi/castero/)

This is a great podcast client.

## [calcurse](https://www.calcurse.org/)

This is my calendar/to-do list program.

## [sxiv](https://github.com/muennich/sxiv/)

This is my image viewer.

## [mpd](https://www.musicpd.org/)

This is a daemon for playing music. I use it with a frontend, ncmpcpp,
which is
described below.

## [ncmpcpp](http://rybczak.net/ncmpcpp/)

This is the mpd frontend I use.

## [mpv](https://mpv.io/)

This is the video player I use.

## [sc-im](https://github.com/andmarti1424/sc-im)

This is a cool vi-like terminal spreadsheet program. I have to admit I
don't use
it as much as I'd like, but it is installed on my system.

## [htop-vim](https://github.com/KoffeinFlummi/htop-vim)

This is a build of htop with vi bindings. It makes using htop way more
fun.

## [maim](https://github.com/naelstrof/maim)

This is how I take screenshots.

## [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/)

A compiler that I use.

## [Guile](https://www.gnu.org/software/guile/)

Basically a Scheme interpreter.

## [GDB]("https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/")

A debugger I don't really use unless I really can't figure out a bug.

## [Groff](https://www.gnu.org/software/groff/)

The document compilation system I use. I hate LaTeX (because I've
never used
it).

## [spell](https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/spell/)

A wrapper for [aspell](http://aspell.net/) that works like the
[original spell for Version 7
Unix](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spell_(Unix).

## [cronie](https://github.com/cronie-crond/cronie)

A nice cron daemon. I sync my email, weather forecast and news using
it.

## [Profanity](https://profanity-im.github.io/)

A nice XMPP client. I mostly use Matrix now though.

## [Weechat](https://weechat.org/)

An IRC client that I also use for Matrix using
[weechat-matrix](https://github.com/poljar/weechat-matrix).

## [dmenu](https://tools.suckless.org/dmenu/)

One of my favorite programs ever. I use it to search the web, open
bookmarks,
play music, manage passwords, and launch programs.

## [surfraw](http://surfraw.org/)

This allows me to use dmenu to search the web.

## [pass](https://www.passwordstore.org/)

This is the GPG-encrypted password manager I use.

## [GnuPG](https://gnupg.org/)

This allows me to encrypt and sign mail and other files (like my
passwords).

## [dico](https://puszcza.gnu.org.ua/software/dico/)

A dictionary server implementation. I use the client provided to help
me define
words from Wiktionary usually.
