+++
title = "Jeffersonians vs. Hamiltonians: An Ongoing American Conflict"
date = 2020-02-28T19:51:28-05:00
tags = []
featured_image = ""
description = ""
+++

Here is an interesting essay I wrote:

In every era throughout American history, there have been those who
advocate for a limited government approach to solving problems and an
authoritarian group that disagrees. The roots of this conflict can be
traced back to the Declaration of Independence as well as Thomas
Jefferson's disagreements with Alexander Hamilton in the early
post-revolution era, specifically in relation to the proposal of a
National Bank in 1791. This continues on in one form or another even
today. This also had an effect on American literature. American
history describes a long conflict between Jeffersonian and Hamiltonian
ideas, and the struggle for Jeffersonians to keep their values alive
and maintain their version of the American identity.

In 1776, the Declaration of Independence was written, which made
people aware of the dangers of a large government that is not
representative of the people. The document gave the colonists a firm
argument to why they should be released from British rule. The
document heavily implies that judiciary power is reserved to the King
and British Parliament alone, and they were passing laws which should
be passed by an independent legislature run by the colonists. This
argument imposes a future problem; the resulting states should not be
controlled by a large central government. It would be too dangerous to
have larger or more powerful states make decisions for the smaller,
weaker ones. Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence,
which makes it a useful document to see into his mindset. The ideas in
this document continue to influence politics today.

Following the failed Articles of Confederation, the Constitution was
written, and a core philosophy in it was the concept of checks and
balances, and a legislative branch that is split into two groups, the
House of Representatives and the Senate. This helped keep the federal
government from letting their power reach too far. However, many parts
of the Constitution are up for interpretation, and those who worry
of a tyrannical government taking power or an excessively strong
central government, maybe based on the interests of other states,
think of the Constitution in a different manner than those who believe
a strong central government is necessary. Jefferson's idea that a
National Bank is outside of the responsibilities of the federal
government is a prime example of the Constitution's interpretability.
Jefferson argued that anything not explicitly stated in the
Constitution as allowed is reserved to state governments. However,
Alexander Hamilton believed that if it is not explicitly stated as out
of the federal government's hands is permitted. This is an important
disagreement because it draws the line between an authoritarian or
limited government.

In the period surrounding the Civil War, Hamiltonian ideas were
challenged heavily by the South and by authors at the time. In 1849, 
the very influencial author and transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau
wrote *Civil Disobedience*, which makes the point that citizens
have a duty to prevent injustice in their nation, sometimes even by
ignoring laws. If no one stands up to unjust laws, the moral integrity
of the state is lost. This is in opposition to the idea of just
blindly following authority, even when it feels wrong. Although
Thoreau was strongly opposed to slavery, this idea could be compared
to the secession of Southern states leading up to the Civil War.
Although the secession of Southern states  was due to the fear of the
abolition of slavery, this provoked a feeling that the federal
government had too many rights reserved to them. A more libertarian
approach would be to allow legislative groups representating smaller
groups of people, like town, city, or state legislatures to have
greater power. The South believed more in this philosophy. The era
surrounding the Civil War was a very important time for the
development of these ideas surrounding how the federal, state, and
local governments should work and interact with each other.

Following the Civil War came the rise of industrialization, and along
with this came the argument over what the government's responsibility
is in regulation of factories, the workers, and the products that they
make. The fundamental sub-conflict here was between capitalism and
socialism. Capitalists believe that government intervention in the
economy and in social affairs should be very little, whereas on the
other hand socialists believe that there should be strong laws in
place to protect workers and products. The capitalist argument is more
Jeffersonian in nature, but there is a key difference. Jefferson
believed the United States should be a country of farmers driven by
small scale community-based economic systems. This is very different
from the consumerism that was a product of industralization. It can be
inferred that in Jefferson's (and Thoreau's) view, industrialization
isn't beneficial to society.

Later on, just before the turn of the century, the Spanish-American
War occurred. This made the US government not only very influencial
within its borders, but also outside of them. The US started to spread
its ideas of democracy and capitalism, starting in Cuba. They also
acquired more territory, such as Puerto Rico, the Philippines, and
Hawaii (although Hawaii was not acquired due to the Spanish-American
War). As a result of this newly-acquired territory, the US was able to
set up naval bases and gain military power in the Pacific and around
Central America and the Carribean. This made it clear that the US was
headed in an authoritative direction, ignoring the libertarian views
it squashed following the Civil War.

Continuing along the same authoritarian route, Congress passed the
Espionage Act (which is still in effect today) in 1917. It can be
argued very strongly that it limited free speech significantly. This
was due to the country's entry into World War I, and a desperate need
for Americans to participate in the war effort.

Following the economic boom during the 1920's came the Great
Depression, and people felt there was a strong need for a small bit of
socialism to help Americans and the American economy. The New Deal was
a moderate result to this, which gave people jobs. This is a
Hamiltonian approach to a Hamiltonian problem, though, because without
industrialization leading into consumerism, such a big economic
depression like this would not have been possible.

Another example of authoritarianism prevailing in the 20<sup>th</sup>
Century is the McCarthy era. Joseph McCarthy's accusations caused
people to fear if they had at one point supported communism or made it
appear as if they did. This is very antithetical to core values
implied in the Constitution. Reagan somewhat restored the Jeffersonian
values by limiting social benefits, although he did focus money on
national defense, and openly criticized communism (normal practice at
the time, but still a contrasting idea). This is an attribute of a
strong central government, but he stepped in a more libertarian
direction for sure. This consumer-based economic plan was not aligned
with Jefferson's ideas, but still moreso than a strong social welfare
system.

The United States has fought a constant battle between two ideas,
authoritarianism and libertarianism, which can be embodied in
Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson respectively. This is an
ongoing and heated debate which divides the nation, and it is
important that Americans stick to the values our country was founded
upon and strives to preserve: freedom and democracy.
